Okay, so now I've taken a greyscaled image,
and using edge detection,
turned it into an image full of dots,
but only the dots that represent edges in the original image.
Now let's connect the dots.
I could connect the dots to look for any kind of shape in my image.
but in this case I'm looking for lines.
To find lines, I need to first adopt a model of a line and
then fit that model to the assortment of dots in my edge detected image.
Keeping in mind that my image is just a function of x and y,
I can use the old familiar equation of a line y = mx + b.
In this case my model includes two parameters, m and b.
In image space, a line is plotted as x versus y,
but in parameter space,
which we will call Hough space,
I can represent that same line as m versus b instead.
The Hough transform is just a conversion from image space to Hough space.
So the characterization of a line in image space will be
a single point at the position m-b in Hough space.